{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf340
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
There is ecstasy in paying attention. You can get into a kind of Wordsworthian openness to the world, where you see everything in the essence of holiness, a sign that God is implicit in all of creation. Or maybe you are not predisposed to see the world sacramentally, to see everything as an outward visible sign of inward, invisible grace. This does not mean that you are worthless Philistine scum. Anyone who wants to can be surprised by the beauty or pain of the natural world of the human mind and heart, and can try to capture just that \'97 the details, the nuance, what is. If you start to look around, you will start to see. When what we see catches us off guard, and when we write it as realistically and openly as possible, it offers hope. You look around and say, Wow, there\'92s that same mockingbird; there\'92s that woman in the red hat again. The woman in the red hat is about hope because she\'92s in it up to her neck, too, yet every day she puts on that crazy hat and walks to town. One of these images might show up dimly in the lower right quadrant of that imaginary Polaroid you took; you didn\'92t even know it at first that it was part of the landscape, and here it turns out to evoke something so deep in you that you can\'92t put your finger on it. Here is one sentence by Gary Snyder:\
	
\i Ripped on the surface of the water \'97\
were silver salmon passing under \'97 different\
from the ripples caused by breezes.\

\i0 Those words less than twenty of them, make ripples clear and bright, distinct again. I have a tape of a Tibetan nun singing a mantra of compassion over and over for an hour, eight words over and over, and every line feels different, feels cared about and experienced as she is singing. You never once have the sense that she is glancing down at her watch, thinking, \'93Jesus Christ, it\'92s only been fifteen minutes.\'94 Forty-Five minutes later she is still singing each line distinctly, word by word, until the last word is sung.\
Mostly things are not that way, that simple and pure, with so much focus given to each syllable of life as life sings itself. But that kind of attention is the prize. To be engrossed by something outside ourselves is a powerful antidote for the rational mind, the mind that so frequently has its head up its own ass \'96 seeing things in such a narrow and darkly narcissistic way that it presents a colorectal theology, offering hope to no one. }